Reorganize HIP runtime API how-to (#3622)
ROCm-Developer-Tools/HIP: docs/how-to/hip_runtime_api/memory_management/device_memory.rst

.. meta::
  :description: This chapter describes the device memory of the HIP ecosystem
                ROCm software.
  :keywords: AMD, ROCm, HIP, device memory

.. _device_memory:

*******************************************************************************
Device memory
*******************************************************************************

Device memory exists on the device, e.g. on GPUs in the video random access
memory (VRAM), and is accessible by the kernels operating on the device. Recent
architectures use graphics double data rate (GDDR) synchronous dynamic

> random-access memory (SDRAM) such as GDDR6, or high-bandwidth memory (HBM) such

Reviewer: Specific information like this does not belong in the documentation and becomes outdated very quickly - E.g. the MI300 is backed by HBM3e.

You could however mention, as a general concept, that device memory has ~an order of magnitude higher bandwidth when accessed by kernels when compared to the cpu accessing normal RAM.

Author: Added to separate issue.

as HBM2e. Device memory can be allocated as global memory, constant, texture or
surface memory.

Global memory
================================================================================

> Read-write storage visible to all threads on a given device. There are

Reviewer: In this current state it's too close to the conceptual/programming model. We should add code snippets explaining how to use these different memory spaces. This does not need to be done in this PR

Author: Created a separate issue about this already.

specialized versions of global memory with different usage semantics which are
typically backed by the same hardware, but can use different caching paths.

Constant memory
================================================================================

Read-only storage visible to all threads on a given device. It is a limited
segment backed by device memory with queryable size. It needs to be set by the
host before kernel execution. Constant memory provides the best performance
benefit when all threads within a warp access the same address.

Texture memory
================================================================================

Read-only storage visible to all threads on a given device and accessible
through additional APIs. Its origins come from graphics APIs, and provides
performance benefits when accessing memory in a pattern where the
addresses are close to each other in a 2D representation of the memory. 

> The texture management module of HIP runtime API contains the functions of
> texture memory.

Reviewer: Add a link to the reference. Also specify reference in the sentence, as now there are two "HIP runtime API"s in the toc
```suggestion
The texture management module of the HIP runtime API reference contains the functions of
texture memory.
```

Author: Fixed.

Surface memory
================================================================================

A read-write version of texture memory, which can be useful for applications
that require direct manipulation of 1D, 2D, or 3D hipArray_t. 

> The surface objects module of HIP runtime API contains the functions for surface
> memory create, destroy, read and write.

Reviewer: Also link
```suggestion
The surface objects module of HIP runtime API contains the functions for creating,
destroying and reading surface memory.
```

Author: Fixed.
